Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, it recording has started. Okay. So anyone who would. I'm not forcing. I just asking in any ways. I we have slightly diverted from the topic today, anyone who wants to
Ritesh Bhagwat: talk about present from their side about this
Ritesh Bhagwat: what p-value metrics, p-value, and
Ritesh Bhagwat: the the discussion that we we like
Ritesh Bhagwat: we had last time, but did not conclude
Ritesh Bhagwat: for key queries and values metrics. Anyone who would like to present anything?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Zooming. Note.
Ritesh Bhagwat: yeah, yeah. So what happened is, I told you that we were going to discuss that. So what what was happening is we were stuck in a loop. Okay, so what I am thinking. And you let me know. I hope this makes sense to you
Ritesh Bhagwat: is that we'll just park that idea today. The key query value because we have to discuss something else. I mean more on that. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: the problem is, if we get stuck, we'll again get stuck in the same loop today because we are going to. We need to have some hands on to understand that thing. What I planned is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: no, we'll go. We can keep a session a little bit short today.
Ritesh Bhagwat: so we'll get started with Openai. I'll just at least introduce to you how to get started all the stuff that we did with Gemini. You can do with Openai also, we'll just, you know, briefly, get you started so that if you want you can do a hands-on.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Then what we'll do is we will understand. What is this? Bert and Gpt, we get a bird introduction. Okay? All conceptual. Then we'll do. We'll understand what is transfer learning and fine tuning of Llms. Because we wanted to do it from last 2 sessions. But we somehow just couldn't. So this will get things rolling.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and next week what we'll do is we'll do. We'll start the actual fine tuning hands on. So we'll solve problem with Bert. Okay? And at that time we'll come back to key queries and values metrics wherein we will be implementing that simultaneously.
Ritesh Bhagwat: so that if if at all, I'm assuming there is still a confusion in the Kqv. So we will take that Kqv. And integrate it with with our hands on. So you will understand it nicely.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does that make sense? Very well.
Nishant: Yes.
Aditya: This, show.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Yeah. So because otherwise you you get it right, we'll we'll go into the loop again, and we'll keep talking about the theory, and we will just get stuck there.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So you know, otherwise our our course will keep on hanging. It's I mean, I I get a lot of people. I mean, we have, like we did 2014. We are going to in the prospector. It was written 24. We'll probably go to 2829 session at least 4 5 sessions are more remaining. Okay? So we just want to get things going ahead. That's why I thought, you know, doing this would be better.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, I hope you're all happy and not forced to. Do, you know, do this in this way.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Just need to trust me a little bit on it, I hope? Okay, with everyone. Right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Happily. Okay. I mean.
Akshay: Yes, it is.
Shubham Gupta: Yes, it is.
Aditya: Yes, itesh right.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay, so like I, this will keep it at last. This is a 2 min thing which you have.
Ritesh Bhagwat: They're going to. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Well, let's talk about something. Who has burnt
Ritesh Bhagwat: before that. I'll just go again to the transformer thing and go transformer architecture.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so we have. We'll don't worry. We'll see this key, query and everything. You know. I I've already done that. Actually, I've already done that coded that written that in in even a simpler format, but just not
Ritesh Bhagwat: going through it. Now you can think of it like this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But think of this transformer little bit over simplification, but still it works.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It's like this. Okay, this is our transformer architecture.
Ritesh Bhagwat: If we divide it into 2 parts. Okay, loosely, we divide it into. So this is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Oh, yeah, let me just take this red part, and I'm just boxing this into a red box
Ritesh Bhagwat: would be cool this red box, and then there is this purple box, Buddy.
Ritesh Bhagwat: to be red? Okay, this is purple box. And now I'm going to take a red box.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so we can see we have separated it into 2 different boxes. Okay, so the purple one
Ritesh Bhagwat: you can just call it as encoder.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and the red one we can call it as a decoder
Ritesh Bhagwat: decoder. You already know what encoder decoder are right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: So now, what happens is, if we break up this transform into 2 different parts, we can have an encoder, only transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, encoder, only transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and we can have a decoder, only transform
Ritesh Bhagwat: one support.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So what will the encoder? Only transformer? Do any guess
Ritesh Bhagwat: as the name suggests any any guess.
Aditya: It will. I mean, it will take the text, and it will create some kind of a numeric representation, or like it, will do some encoding.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, and we can just transform that encoding again to something. I mean, there would be an encoding for each and every word. So we can just go ahead and form an in form an equivalent word to that. It will not do a language translation. But let's say we have.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We saw in attention, right? That maybe you know.
Ritesh Bhagwat: the bank of the river is the bank of the river is beautiful, right? So it might give a new input into bank.
Ritesh Bhagwat: but it will not. When we decode it right, we want to decode it. We can, if we we saw in our encoder decoder architecture, that we can change this into some language. Right? So we'll encode it, and then we will decode it. So we will write in English and we say, change it to French, but with encoder only transformer, we cannot do that, but we can encode it. I mean, we can update the embeddings.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does that make sense? I need to.
Aditya: Yes, it is straight. Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So we can do the attention and all thing, and maybe we can find out whether where the whether the bank is related to this or this that can be done. But in the same language.
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? Is that understood everywhere?
Shrinidhi: So this this doesn't do. Next token prediction. If I use only encoders.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It will do, it will do. I'll tell you how it it does, but it has to be. It is in the same language, it cannot decode it into another language.
Shrinidhi: Okay. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, if we saw, if you remember, our encoder decoder architecture right
Ritesh Bhagwat: in in that. What we did in that session was we gave something in one language. Then it was like, we started like an intelligent, you know this somebody who knows different languages. Right? I give you an example. That interpreter, that interpreter will take it, convert into embeddings. Right? That is done, and after that it will again go to the decoder and convert it into some other language.
Ritesh Bhagwat: right for English to, or English to French, that cannot be done with encoder only.
Shrinidhi: Okay. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, does that make sense.
Shrinidhi: Got it? Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah. So we will just have encoder, only transformer. And we can actually have decoder, only transformer. Also
Ritesh Bhagwat: the same thing. Right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Again, can you tell me what decoder only transformer might do.
Shivranjan Kolvankar: Make sure it comes.
Nishant: According to the next, I mean another language, but not in same language.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so let me let me just tell you something. Okay, that will be sort of again, a little bit of Eureka plus confusion moment. Okay, both of that and which we will see. So the encoder only transformer. There are many types of, but is type of an encoder only. Transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay?
Ritesh Bhagwat: And to your surprise, Gpt is a decoder only transform.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: chat. Gpt, right? Most of it. It is a deco fund. I mean, you can have encoder, decoder, transformer. But generally Gpt is only a decoder, only transform.
Ritesh Bhagwat: we'll come to that in subsequent sessions. We are going to discuss all these things. But have you understood the distinction between encoder only and decoder only.
Shrinidhi: Yes, sir. Yes, go ahead.
Nishant: Exactly. Decoder only will do.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, yeah, yeah. Yes. So you were saying something.
Shrinidhi: If it's a decoder only Llm, what will be the input to it like? Because there is no encoder there, I give some text, and it still gets output. Is there some encoding happening, or directly those.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, it happens encoding. It all happens. Okay, we'll see that one by one. So encoding. So basically
Ritesh Bhagwat: question, answer, type of thing we can do with decoder only transfer.
Shrinidhi: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, we'll see how it happens. Okay, just don't worry. We'll see everything. Today. We are just concentrating to Bird. We will see next. I mean, as we go into fine tuning, we'll see Gpt also how it works. But just for for today's session, discuss that. A lot of things will happen. Okay, it's not just that encoder decoder. But there is something more there is. There is always going to be something.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. Now let me ask you, let me just paraphrase this, can decoder only be used for language translation.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Can't we do some other type of stuff.
Shrinidhi: We are doing everything with chat, gpt.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So you you actually, indirectly answered the question. But yeah, if you give an embedding right? If so, what was the input, of decoder only transform in encoder decoder architecture, let's say, embedding in English.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and we asked it to translate it to him Hindi or French. Right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: So encoding was given.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Is that correct?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Let's say some contextual emboding or embedding vector was given to it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Do you agree.
Shrinidhi: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, so just forget about the encoder part just there is no encoder, part exist, but we have already have some embedding, and we have given that embedding to decoder. Then you can ask it to do a few things with that. Those encodings
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? Does does that make sense.
Aditya: Right? Ritesh, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, I'm not saying, yeah. So what I'm saying is, just imagine, okay, let me just simplify this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Let me go ahead and let's say, this is encoder.
Ritesh Bhagwat: this is an encoder, and this is a decoder.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now we are passing some input here, something here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now this encoding is doing some stuff and then giving some contextual embedding with this
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? Let's say it is green, the green, input the green thing is the output of encoder, and then given to the decoder, and then the decoder is doing something. So this is an encoder, architect, encoder, decoder architecture at a high level.
Ritesh Bhagwat: a great synergy.
Shrinidhi: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, no. What I'm saying is, they just think that Duke doesn't exist.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and we give some embedding from somewhere else
Ritesh Bhagwat: somewhere else. There is some. ABC, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: just for today, understanding, ABC, is there
Ritesh Bhagwat: still, if we can give some contextual contextual or some type of vectors. Okay, just for today some type of vector we can ask the decoder to do a status, something, something out of these vectors.
Shrinidhi: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, it is expecting something as input, and then it will do its thing right now it can come from here. It can come from an encoder. It can come from anywhere right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: It can come from an encoder, decoder architecture. We give it through an encoder. We pass the information here, we encode it, and then we give it, but we can give it without the encoder. Also.
Ritesh Bhagwat: when we don't use the encoder and give the information from some other stream without and without using the encoder part of the transformer. We call it as a decoder, only transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and that is what Gpt is.
Shrinidhi: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, I'll tell you next week is all about this. Only when you'll do fine tuning and gpt and all. But today you have to just understand that this can be done.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, now, how it is done. We'll go into that discussion.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay.
Shrinidhi: Just one more question like, I'm not sure if I have missed that.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah.
Shrinidhi: Architecturally, what is the difference between the 2? Like encoder and decoder? We we I see there are some linear transformation, Softmax being added in the end, etc. and decoder.
Shrinidhi: but otherwise, if I don't have to get into technical aspect, and
Shrinidhi: so you mean to say, the encoder and decoder part of the transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Or the.
Shrinidhi: Yeah, yeah, I mean what it is actually in the from the output of encoder. What we see is we get just the contextual embeddings. We have an.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That's.
Shrinidhi: Embedding, we add the positional encoding. So the output that gets is the contextual embedding.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes.
Shrinidhi: Sorry in in the original transformer. The input embedding also is input to decoder. But along with that we are also passing the contextual embedding, coming out of decoder.
Shrinidhi: But other but other than that.
Shrinidhi: I mean. And then outside, we do some, we get linear. We are doing linear transformation and to get the probabilities of the tokens. We are doing soft, Max, etcetera, but still at the infusion level. I'm I'm I want to know what would be the difference like, when will I know, or when will I decide? I should use encoder or decoder.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. So in this, you're asking about this, right?
Shrinidhi: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: This way.
Shrinidhi: Individually like, what is the difference like? There I get contextual embedding from encoder.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Okay, okay, let me. Yeah. Let me take. Let me take you. Let me give you a very I mean, let me think of something. Yeah, I've just thought something, and I hope it makes sense. Okay. So let me just give you some some analogy, and then we'll come. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, let's say that we have
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, I'm just making this analogy in my mind right away. Okay? So it might sound a little vague. Yeah. So let's say we have. This is one part.
Ritesh Bhagwat: then.
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay, so let's say, we are making a vegetable. Okay, I've just put on this analogy. I hope this will make sense. Let's say we want to make some.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What do you say?
Ritesh Bhagwat: veg, Kadai, we all know Veg Kadai, what to Veg Kadai is right.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I mean, we we have eaten. I mean, mixed vegetables. Yeah, fine.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So what happens is that we give vegetables.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We give vegetables here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now let's say this part, which I'll be just calling it as encoder, for now
Ritesh Bhagwat: what encoder does is it cuts all the vegetables into pieces.
Ritesh Bhagwat: so all the vegetables are cut into pieces.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That is the part of the encoder
Ritesh Bhagwat: vegetable pieces. We cannot do veg pari without cutting it to pieces. Is that correct?
Shrinidhi: Can I please.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Cannot put like full potato and full whatever you know, Benjel and all, we have to cut it into pieces. Okay, so this encoder cuts the vegetable into pieces, and then that cut pieces.
Ritesh Bhagwat: cut pieces, travel to this decoder, and here is where all the gravy is prepared, and then you know all, all stuff the salt is added, and whatever the
Ritesh Bhagwat: preparation. Okay? So that all is done. Okay? So all the preparation, maybe heating, adding of gravy, etcetera, etcetera, right steering it, giving the appropriate temperature that is done, and we get our final
Ritesh Bhagwat: vegetable that can be is ready to eat.
Ritesh Bhagwat: ready to eat.
Shrinidhi: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, does this make sense? This flow chart? I mean, I it's a flow chart, you know, very vague flow chart. But does this make sense to everyone.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, it does for me.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So we are doing some basic processing of vegetables in encoder. And then we are preparing vegetables. Okay?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, what if I'm just talking about, Bert?
Ritesh Bhagwat: What if we just want to have veg salad, which is a mix of vegetables? And I just want
Ritesh Bhagwat: salt sprinkled on it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What I'll do is
Ritesh Bhagwat: I will just take this, and rather than giving it to decoder, I'll just take the output here
Ritesh Bhagwat: right. I will just take the output here and sprinkle a little bit of salt on top.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It becomes my veg salad, mixed veg salad, whatever it is mixed. Veg, salad.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does this make sense.
Shrinidhi: Yeah, it is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Yeah. So we don't need that type of processing for making a salad. We don't need gravy. And we don't need to get it heated, and all that stuff so so there can be a few tasks which are good for encoder. Only
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? There can be a few tasks which is done, and little bit of thing would be needed. You think at least you have to add salt from here, which is okay, right? So we? We don't need to do all this stuff.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We don't need to do all this stuff here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So now this is an encoder, only transform.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You might laugh at the analogy. But this is actually how it works. Does this make sense before we go to the decoder? Only thing.
Shrinidhi: Yeah, it does, Ritesh. Actually, I'm smiling at this example. It's.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, I know everybody's laughing, but.
Shrinidhi: So when this actually is more, what is it? Appealing and sort of ingrained mind? Now.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Others also have. You can laugh at me. Others feel free to laugh at me. But I hope it is understood.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Nishant and Akshay Aditya, okay, sure am also joined. True bomb understood right.
Shubham Gupta: Yes, yes.
Aditya: Yes, sir.
Nishant: And.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, you can. You feel you can feel free to laugh. Okay, I I will make take make moments. Okay.
Nishant: For example, it will be remembered.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, it. He will always remember the same example. Okay, now, this is, I'll just, you know, this is like what the encoder only work. Now think of it that we bring
Ritesh Bhagwat: we bring, you know, in in the food, malls and all. We get the vegetables already cut vegetables so we don't need this vegetable cutter. So you bring.
Ritesh Bhagwat: only the already cut vegetables from the Mall, and then those already cut vegetables are now given here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now it's up to you whether you want to make Veg Kadai or Veg Andy, or you just want to take you just want to, you know, cut vegetables are here. So you maybe you know those are like mix of cauliflower and cabbage and potato and onion, or you just take onion and delete everything and make an onion, someji
Ritesh Bhagwat: or onion. So you you're not using the encoder to cut the vegetables. You have alternate ways of getting that getting those cut vegetables. So you bring it from there, and then you decide what you want to do with it, whether you want to make mixed veg.
Ritesh Bhagwat: or you just want to make Jira alus. You just take the aloo and add some jira into it. Make wix mail, and so on, and so forth. So that will become a decoder. Only transfer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so decoder only might be slightly tricky for you. Gpt thing today, which we'll discuss next week. Don't worry about that, but this is the way both of things can work together. You know, as I told you, we can do all the cutting, and then all the masala, and all also in the in this whole pipeline, or we can have it in 2 distinct ways. One thing does one thing, and if depending on the type of problem we want to solve, we can use an encoder, only transformer. We can use a decoder only transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? So I'm not sure. Was this the question you were trying to ask? Was the question something else.
Shrinidhi: No, it was. It was this question of the.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It's worth discussion.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So we can have the. The output of this is, we can have a decoder, only transformer. We can have an encoder only transfer, and we can have encoder and decoder only.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. By the way, I you know, I I have to ask this anybody I came to know it. I never thought of it, but came to know it after a lot of time. What is the full form of Gpt.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You also chat. Gpt, right? Chat. Gpt, this. Gpt, that pre-trained transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Generative business. Yeah, yeah, that's correct. I you know, I it took me a lot of time Monday I googled it here. What is? Gpt, I used to think
Ritesh Bhagwat: I I used to think this is some general, and this is Transformer PI don't know, but it is generative, pre-trained, transform. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It came here.
Shrinidhi: I have to move it. Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Buddy.
Shrinidhi: The same here, like even after a very long 3, 4 months into using.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, yeah, yeah. At least we should know the full form. If somebody asked that in the interview it would be embarrassing to not know that.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, yeah. So now, this what this part tells us that
Ritesh Bhagwat: we can have an encoder, only transformer, we can have a decoder only transform. And we can have encoder, decoder, both types of transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, now, Google came up with this encoder. Only transformer known as Bert Board. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: anybody who knows the full form of. But
Ritesh Bhagwat: yeah, it's a long, full form. You can see it on your screen.
Shivranjan Kolvankar: Bi-directional.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, by direct. I also just remember bidirectional encoder. Okay, so it is bidirectional encoder representations from transformers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That is important.
Shivranjan Kolvankar: It's not.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Sorry.
Shivranjan Kolvankar: I was gonna say text, I remember the representation. I was not.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, okay, okay, I just remember bidirectional encoder only. But it is. But it is just known as bird. This is a bird transformer, which is actually an encoder. Only transformer. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: it is an encoder, only transformer. And by default it does only 2 things.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Let me just copy this, and we'll read it. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now we will go into the, you know, crux, of what fine tuning is, and why fine tuning is important, and then we'll when we do fine tuning. Next week we will go to Kqkw
Ritesh Bhagwat: addresses. Okay? So by direction, transformer is a transformer model based on based by Google for national. It uses bi-directional approach, meaning it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But yeah, this is important. Can you somebody explain to me what this is?
Ritesh Bhagwat: You see.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. It is like word 2 way, but much more powerful than word. 2 way.
Shubham Gupta: Like it is trying to calculate the distance from both the 2.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, yes, yes, very good, very good. So what it does is, it was the 1st thing that was bidirectional in nature. It takes into consideration. And it is, you know, you can have a lot context level. So it's not just 2 words and 3 words.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It takes into consideration what was written earlier and what was written later.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Then it comes up with with, you know, with the answer that are expected. So it is bidirectional. So now it is. Now we take this bidirectional thing taken for granted. But I think this was somewhere around 215. If I'm not sure. It was somewhere around a decade ago, where, by direction, was a huge thing right at that point of time
Ritesh Bhagwat: this was this was even pre-transformers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: The pre pre transformer thing. So, having context from both the signs together is a huge thing. Is that correct for the machine to understand that.
Akshay: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah. So it was quite huge. There, now, this was just used for 2 tasks only
Ritesh Bhagwat: it was used for 2 tasks that you know, we you remember this, fill in the blanks, fill in the blanks. Type of things we used to get in the words.
Ritesh Bhagwat: a primary school
Ritesh Bhagwat: fill in the blank step of exercise in our in our examination. I hope you all remember.
Akshay: Yes, one more staying.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Sorry, Akshay, your voice was breaking. Please come on.
Akshay: Said yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah. Okay. So others also, remember, right? Now, it does the fill in the blanks type of stuff.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? But we'll see when we solve the birth problem, we'll go into the deep architecture of it. But it does 2 types of work.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It actually goes and fill in the blank. So you give a sentence, and you mask some word from the sentence so based on the context what was used before a few words before a few words. Afterwards it will tell you what should come in that word. So random word in the sentence are masked and the model predicts the them based on the context.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, have you understood this point?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Point number one.
Aditya: Ish, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah. So this was the default thing.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And the second thing was next sentence, prediction.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So it determines if what if one sentence logically follows the other. So you give it one sentence and what it? What would come later out after that sentence, it can do that as
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay. So these were the only 2 tasks that it used to perform.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That is, one is fill in the blanks. I mean it is. It is called mask language, modeling in a specific term, I just call it fill in the blanks. Okay? So fill in the blanks. And next sentence prediction. So this, these, so how it does, and how we will do it in real time, and how we'll solve problems with it. We'll do in our next session, where we'll do the Kqw matrices as well as this bus reward transformation. Okay, so these are the 2 things that it does nicely, or only these 2 things.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, does it make any questions on this.
Shrinidhi: No.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now it is a great model to solve classification problems.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now is the crux. Now is the interesting part.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So this can be gate which we which we are also going to solve next week. Okay, next week is dedicated to Burt only.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So we can solve all classification problems through this port model?
Ritesh Bhagwat: No.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does any one of these 2 things that it does looks like a classification problem
Ritesh Bhagwat: like if you want, I mean, classification is like, you know, if you give it tweet sentiment to it and ask it whether it is positive negative. It would do all the classification types, you know, if you give it. A student reviews, whether the review is positive, negative, or neutral, or harsh, or very harsh, or very status, or sarcastic, etc, etc, etc, all the types of multi classification as well as binary classification.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does any one of the these 2 tasks look
Ritesh Bhagwat: like a classification problem to you?
Shrinidhi: The second one. Next sentence, prediction, if one sentence is logically follows the other one.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so is it classification or generation.
Nishant: It will be generation.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Generation, right.
Shrinidhi: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And classification. Let's say we have 10 classes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? So it it should not predict anything other than 10 classes, but a sentence. It can do anything right
Ritesh Bhagwat: based on this sentence, we cannot restrict it that only these 10 words will come
Ritesh Bhagwat: based on this context, it can
Ritesh Bhagwat: technically quote unquote technically generate whatever it thinks is a logical flow. But we are not classifying it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does that make sense.
Shrinidhi: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: In the. If you, if we can consider that as classification, then even the fill in the blanks is the classification right? If let's say this, this is mass, this sentence is mass, it is just predicting the next word. It is classifying what it called
Ritesh Bhagwat: so fundamentally, everything becomes a classification type of thing.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But I'm just talking about the the generic idea of how classification problems work. So these 2 don't look like classification. Would you agree? Sweeney and others.
Shrinidhi: Yeah, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yep. Yep.
Aditya: Yes, sir.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But yeah, but we can do wonder. We can solve great classification problems with but in fact, after. But everybody just use it, but only to do the classification problem.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, how can we do that? Any guess?
Ritesh Bhagwat: I'm not asking you architecture or technical question, or anything.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I'm just asking you.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What do you feel?
Ritesh Bhagwat: How can we do that if it it is just able to do these 2 things? And we have to make it do something. 3, rd which is not
Ritesh Bhagwat: related to these 2 things. Then how can we do that?
Shrinidhi: Since you told that Bert is only an encoder model. The output embedding we get, if we add a softmax layer in the end. When that give us the problem.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Very good. So you are. Yeah. So you told that is the thing that you do. So what we'll do we'll tweak the output a little bit. Is that correct?
Shrinidhi: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, does everyone agree?
Ritesh Bhagwat: We can tweak the output a little bit.
Akshay: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So that is what fine tuning is all about.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That is what fine tuning is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, it's a very generic idea which will which we'll discuss it a great length like for 1520 min. Just understanding what fine tunings.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, you have to understand this next week on our only fine tuning is remaining remaining, and you know, chat gpt, and we'll do. You know whatever we did with Gemini, we'll do it with Chat Gpt, and also anthropic cloud. But the crux, 6. Time will load a lot of hugging fix transformers. Fine tuning. So we have to just understand what fine tuning is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. Now with this idea that I just told you we are tweaking something outside. This is fine tuning.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So now, can you give me? Can you just think of something.
Ritesh Bhagwat: use cases, or some some some something that you that comes to your mind that you can do with fine tune.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But what eventually fine-tuning is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: what are the things you can do with fine tuning? What are the ways? I'm not asking any technical thing. I'm just asking. Very general thing can give any analogies also. Wherein you can, you know. Go ahead and you know. Use this fine tuning, or how can we? What does fine tuning mean to you? Let me just put it this way. Let me ask you a simple question, what does fine tuning mean to you with the limited amount of knowledge that we have right now that we can tweak the output a little bit.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? Have you understood the question?
Shrinidhi: You.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah. Just think through it. If long. Answer, also, fine as always. Don't worry.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You're talking slow.
Aditya: So this, like it, is like taking a pre-trained model and adapting it for some specific tasks which
Aditya: to achieve.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Very good, very good. Yep, yep, exactly.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You take a model and adapt it to a
Ritesh Bhagwat: predict. Okay? So the the 1st thing I. Always, we have always talked about this. We'll talk it about that's today. So let's say, we want to build a model which identifies zebra
Ritesh Bhagwat: be brass.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now we already have a great model which is good at identifying odds.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Can we use this model for zebra?
Ritesh Bhagwat: If no, why not? If yes, why and how.
Nishant: We need to fine tune it for Debra.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So we can use it right?
Nishant: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. And why do we say that we can use it.
Nishant: Your basic structure is same.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, does everyone agree with Nishawn?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Basic structure? Is it right? Right? So instead of instead of starting something from scratch and making it, you know, making it learn the structure and all. We will do this horse, and we will take this transformer and we'll train it with big models of zebras right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: And then it will understand that something which is like the horse. But there are stripes on the body is a zebra. That is what all is needed for the model to understand
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? This is known as transfer learning. By the way, I've shared the I've already shared the Pre this recording with you in the recorded session. This is known as transfer learning. When we take one system, and we, instead of building something from scratch. We just go ahead and and you we go ahead. And you know, tweak with that and make it make it more useful for our use case. And that is what transfer learning is
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay. Is this clear.
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So let me give you an example. Okay, let's say that we have a neural network. I'm not talking about transformer. Okay, I'm just talking about a neural network.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Let's say, we have a neural network.
Ritesh Bhagwat: This is input, these are pre trained network. By the way, and we have a few hidden layers. Okay, so I'm just taking one.
Ritesh Bhagwat: the 6.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And then this is 7.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And then we will obviously have weights and biases and all neurons here, all neurons. Here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: take me wrong, is it you've done?
Ritesh Bhagwat: What we do is this is a fully connected network. Everything is connected to everything. This.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And here. And let's say this is tells us whether
Ritesh Bhagwat: this is a false or a doubt.
Ritesh Bhagwat: This model tells us whether the image is of a horse or a dog.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And this is a very good, it's there. And it's it's a already solved problem, it is. It is doing great.
Ritesh Bhagwat: He's doing great.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, any questions on this. This is fine understood.
Aditya: Yes, Ritesh, thank you.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes. Now, now, what we want to do is we want to build a new network which identifies whether the image given to it of an animal is of a horse.
Ritesh Bhagwat: donkey or zibar.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so what will you do here?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Have you understood the question?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, we want to find a problem. We want to find a we want to build a network which identifies horse donkey and zebra.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So what will be your strategy to build this model.
Aditya: I think we need. We'll need to add the
Aditya: like. In the final year. We'll need to add, you know, for 3 categories.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Very good, very ruins.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What we are going to give is we are going to delete this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Is that correct?
Nishant: Pretty.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And one is, you just go ahead and we go ahead and add a multi-classification layer here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Right? And this is like horse. This is donkey, and this is zebra.
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? This is the one thing we can do right. But assuming that our day, our this problem is going to be a little bit more complex. Do you agree? Identify horse and donkey.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and identify horse, zebra and donkey? Then how does horse zebra and donkey identification is a little bit more complex than only horse and donkey. Does everyone agree to that?
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So what we are going to do just be before doing this, maybe we will. We will say that I'm going to add a few more layers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: we will add a few more layers. Here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Let's say we have decided to add 2 more layers, and then what we are going to do is
Ritesh Bhagwat: we're going to make it finally a multi-classification.
Ritesh Bhagwat: this one, this one and this one
Ritesh Bhagwat: correct. Now, what we have done, we have taken an existing model and made it tweaked it to our understanding
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? And we just call it a transfer learn which is actually a super set of point. And I'm coming to that
Ritesh Bhagwat: now.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, what what is going to happen is when we go ahead. When we go ahead, and we we will give. Now what we'll give. We'll give horse donkeys and zebra
Ritesh Bhagwat: images to this model, right? And it will start and we'll train the model with new images. Is that correct?
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yep. Now, what is going to happen when we are going to train this with 2 images
Ritesh Bhagwat: in the neural network? What is going to happen.
Shrinidhi: So now update the weights as per the new.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And weights and bias. Right? So the entire weights and biases will be updated. Is that correct?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, additive option.
Aditya: Yes, ritesh right.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now the problem happens here is that I'm just talking about transfer learning for a minute, and we'll equate it to our Nlp and transformers in a minute.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now what happens is in a neural network. The initial layer always initial layers are always they. They study the, you know, outlines of the things. Then the middle layer studies the details of the out more detailed and the outer layer studies, the detail, more details of the details. I think we have spoken about it in our previous sessions, right
Ritesh Bhagwat: or not. If not, then we'll speak it right now, or, if you don't remember, we can speak it right now.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Please tell me.
Nishant: Yeah, we have spoken. I guess we can log the layer. Well.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes. So, Aditya, do you remember? Or do you want me, Shubam? Do you want me to discuss this quickly?
Aditya: Yeah, Ritesh, I somewhat remember, like, I think, we discussed this in one of the sessions.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes. So the initial layers are always the the it it they basically structure. Study the outlines that the middle layer study the more details, the outer the layer, the more detailed the studies. Right? So if you will go ahead and
Ritesh Bhagwat: just playing it like this, all the weights and biases will be updated. So the initial layers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: because a zebra, the basic outline of a zebra is exactly like a horse and donkey. So we don't want to disturb the outline of this layer. Let's say these these 3 layers. Okay, these 3 layers are these 3 layers are important because they have. They know the outline. So we don't want to disturb those weights and biases, because that has a lot of information of the basic structure. What we do is we freeze these layers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: we freeze these layers and then train. So now what will happen in the 1st 3 layers? The weight and biases will always remain the same. What was from the original model and the weights and biases from the 4th layers will start to update.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, does that make sense.
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yep, yep, now, Aditya, I'm coming to something that you mentioned in last session, or last to last session.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now, when we talk about
Ritesh Bhagwat: our nlp or language, right? Our language or etc, whatever it is. Right. So of course, there is weights and biases. Everything is weights and biases. But there is something more than weights and biases that is going to change. If we let's say we have a transformer, which is very good at doing something which is like bird, and we want to make it as a classification transformer. So we add some tasks related to classification, and we start training it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What is going to happen?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Weights and biases, there is always a neural network. The weights and biases is going to change. Something else is going to change and
Ritesh Bhagwat: adity actually mentioned it in one of the sessions. I don't remember if if it was last session or last to last session.
Nishant: What else feature.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Sorry.
Nishant: Loss will change.
Ritesh Bhagwat: No, no losses. Loss is going to loss is always going to change right? It is going to reduce. The more we train one. There is one specific thing when we talk about
Ritesh Bhagwat: or transformers and Nlp which is not present in this type, Cnn type of network.
Nishant: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We have been speaking. Let me give you a head. We have been speaking this in almost all our previous sessions.
Ritesh Bhagwat: but since we started since we started in it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And Aditya actually said this in one of the sessions. I remember distinctly that he says fine tuning means changing this.
Shubham Gupta: The expense.
Shrinidhi: Changing the contact. Embeddings.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Embeddings exact exactly. The embeddings is going to change right
Ritesh Bhagwat: if we go ahead and model model is trained, and we stop there model in in terms of Nlp. We have our weights and biases, and we have our final embeddings. Now, if we will go ahead and train it more, the embeddings are going to change.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Is that correct?
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Yeah. So, Aditya, do you remember
Ritesh Bhagwat: you said that fine tuning means changing of embeddings yesterday? Right? Yeah. I remember.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I think you already said it. I I distinctly remember that. And I told you I will come back to that. Yeah. So same thing in when we talk about languages and all our embeddings are going to change right now, for example, this, this works well with the transformer thing we studied right, for example, the bank thing a bank will have a single embedding, but based on attention whenever we do attending. If it is used with river.
Ritesh Bhagwat: the embedding of the bank changes, if if it uses with financial institution the embedding of the bank changes. We already discussed that. Okay, so now, what happens with fine tuning is fine. Tuning is a very, very huge umbrella.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So let's say that your model. Okay, I'm just not talking about world right now. Just transformer. Just, I'm talking about you know the entire transformer thing. Let's say your transformer is very good at
Ritesh Bhagwat: question, answers question and answers great. It is very good at question answers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So it's a very generic transformer. You can ask its question answers for anything under the sun. Okay, anything. But let's say you are a bank.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? Or you're a hospital.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay?
Ritesh Bhagwat: So if you're a hospital and you want to build something for a hospital, do you need?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Do you need anything related to? Let's say cooking or astrology, or
Ritesh Bhagwat: maybe you know something related to astronomy. Will any of the patients that are in you know, want to do some you know interact with your transformer. Are they going to ask the hospital about cooking or anything like that?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, tell me if you want to inquire something about a hospital. There is a chat. Bot. Will you inquire? Cooking instructions from a hospital.
Aditya: Northish, no.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You will never do that right. But this this transformer, which is a transformer, it is Qa, which is like very generic purpose. Transformer. You can ask anything to it
Ritesh Bhagwat: now, if I want to make it a hospital specific transformer, what should I do.
Shrinidhi: I have to fine tune with only hospital domain specific data.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Exactly exactly while preserving all the intelligence that it has learned how to how to go ahead and do a question. Answer
Ritesh Bhagwat: the basic, the basic con or the basic structure of con question. Answer will always remain the same
Ritesh Bhagwat: right? And so it has understood the language context. Can I say that the generic generic purpose transformer has understood the language context.
Ritesh Bhagwat: does that make sense?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, you can, you can question, answer it on any topic. So it understands how the contextual language works. Can I say that.
Aditya: Yes, I mean it. It has a very good understanding of the language.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, exactly.
Aditya: So.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Yeah. So what what we will do is we will fine tune it. What we'll do. We'll just bring a new data set, which is very hospital specific data set. Okay? And we will tweak a trans that transformer a little bit and make it very, very hospital specific. So it becomes a domain specific, transformer, right domain specific. And this is all. This is also a part of fine tuning
Ritesh Bhagwat: that you take a very powerful thing and make it even more powerful in a sub subset area. Now, the thing is, if you don't do this, if you let's say I'm taking this orange box, if if you don't do this, what is inside the orange box, and you just ask hospital questions to it, it will still answer it, but once you train it with specific hospital data. It will, it will do it in a much more better way, because it is trained specific for that task, and not a generic task.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Does that make sense?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yes or no?
Aditya: Yesterday, straight.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So do you see, let me ask you a counter question. Do you see any benefit in this, that, rather than using a generic thing which also answers.
Ritesh Bhagwat: hospital related questions. You fine, tune it with your data set and make it hospital specific.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Do you see any benefit in this.
Aditya: So, Radesh, I think the generic model will not have access to the hospital specific, you know. Let's say policies, or, let's say, some documents, admission, process, and all those things.
Ritesh Bhagwat: That's right.
Aditya: So with additional documents. We can, you know, add this knowledge to the.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, you would just think of it as every country has some specific regularities. Right? The hospital, I mean the government. They regulate something. There's something like that within us. In India. Also, we have some things right, some specific things to specific geographies in India, even State State have their own regulations that this has to be done. So all those things
Ritesh Bhagwat: might. Let's say we want to make specific to a geography. Right. So the all the rules and legalities of hospital running, administration, etcetera, etcetera, have to be loaded into this, and may made it customized to that particular hospital that let's say that hospital is located in Pune. Right? So it has to follow the whatever the municipal Corporation of Pune dictates. Then, after that, whatever the multiple. I mean, what is, whatever
Ritesh Bhagwat: the policies of Maharash to dictate over that, whatever the policies of India dictate. So we are, we have to give all these things, right legalities and.
Ritesh Bhagwat: doctor, and whatever you know, whatever comes, all the peripherals of data specific to India and specific to Mahashtra and specific to Pune. So it becomes that hospital. Now, this might not be available at a very high level, right? Those high, level things. It's very generic thing. So in us. The hospital healthcare works in a different way. In India it works in a different way. Right in London it works in Uk. It works in a different way. So we have to give all these things and make it specific.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So 1st of all, we are making it domain specific. That is, you know, it can answer here it can answer on science tech, healthcare finance. We don't want all this. We are making it specific to healthcare. And then inside this also, wherever the hospital is located, we have to ping those regularities. And then we can deploy this model in our area. So what we are doing is we are taking. These are known as foundational models. By the way.
Ritesh Bhagwat: so a jargon alert. These are known as foundational models.
Ritesh Bhagwat: foundational model. This is a foundational model. You take a foundational model, you tweak it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It's tweaking is the word which we call it as fine tuning.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We fine tune it, and then we make it for our specific cases.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so right now.
Ritesh Bhagwat: almost everyone. And in India also, the opportunity lies in doing this. Only I mean, it's very it is almost. I can just say that it is almost impossible that you're going to build an Llm. From scratch. Nobody's going to do that, even. You know the all the tech gurus in India, the real real ones. Okay, not the influencer type stuff. What they are saying is
Ritesh Bhagwat: that the opportunity for India lies in application.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, the things are already built. We have to go ahead and make solutions based on these foundational models. So take a foundational model and you tweak it according to your business requirement. And that is what fine tuning is all about, which is very similar to transfer learning which we have already talked, and I've shared a session. Also.
Ritesh Bhagwat: you understand this specific things about fine tuning.
Ritesh Bhagwat: What this fine tuning actually is.
Shrinidhi: Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, yeah. Any questions on this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: how we are doing it all the 5 6 sessions remaining. We just do fine tuning on.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. So now. But right? But so we are going to solve next week a number of problems with Bert. So all the classical problems of classification are actually. Now, just give it to Bert.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So machine learning for that classification, you can still do it. But when it comes to language, right when it is a when the data is in a row column format right in the structured data thing, you should always go with the traditional machine learning. It is still the bread and butter everything. Okay, it's not that traditional machine learning is dead. Whenever you are getting data in this format, you should always go with traditional machine learning methods. But the moment you get unstructured data, like images or languages and all
Ritesh Bhagwat: you go to this transformer. That's a neural network based model. So what we will do next week is we'll take this bird.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, we'll go a little bit into architecture. We'll not go. I'll share the research paper with you. But yeah, we'll still go with a little bit, you know, high level architecture, and we'll solve 2, 3 problems at least with this bird. And with this we will discuss the Q. Aq.
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay, and we'll have a solid understanding of that as well.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so can I. Say, we have got a decent understanding of fine tuning.
Shrinidhi: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. And can I say, we have 2. We have a transformer which is encoder, decoder, transformer. We have a transformer which is encoder, only transformer. I mean, we can have, and we can have a transformer which is a decoder, only transformer.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Right? This is also understood.
Shrinidhi: Yep.
Aditya: It is okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So yeah, so our next 6 sessions will just be of all these things. Okay, we'll do it. So. And I'll also introduce Claude, Claude, and Chat Gp. To you. So we'll take a break, and I'll tell you something how to get started with Chat Gpt, and we can call it a day today, so next week will be whole hands on.
Ritesh Bhagwat: But I hope these things are clear. If it is not clear you please ask me again.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, anything.
Aditya: Sure. Just one thing like the fine tuning is kind of a subset of transfer learning, or is it the other way around.
Ritesh Bhagwat: No, it is called a subset of transfer learning.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay to me to me. Actually, let me be very frank with you. To me. Okay, I I mean, people may not agree with this, but I think this is, you know, they have just
Ritesh Bhagwat: rebranded it. There was something that stands for learning. You know how it industry works right.
Ritesh Bhagwat: branded it as fine tuning that it is just transfer learning for me, but they call it, you know if you, if you go ahead and ask questions on Google or Chatgpt, what is the difference between transfer learning and fine tuning, it will tell you some subtle differences that this is a higher umbrella and fine tuning comes under it. But me, it is just rebranding. Okay, I might be wrong.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I mean. To my mind it is always the same thing. But you know how it works. Right? Something, some when you move the yeah, the old. What that is saying, like old wine, new bottle, whatever that is. That is this this thing. It is just transfer learning.
Ritesh Bhagwat: making it in transfer learning. Also, we use existing, we tweak it into fine tuning. Also, we do and tweak. Okay. Now.
Aditya: In fine tuning. We are kind of updating the weights of all the weights of the pre trained model. Right in transfer learning. We are adding layers, and then, or maybe.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Fine tuning. Also we can do that.
Aditya: Okay. Okay. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, we can do that. Whatever.
Aditya: Anonymous. Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, so it is just, you know, just it is just, you know, if you're solving a computer imaging problem, there is a way to solve it. If you're solving an Nlp problem, there is a way to solve
Ritesh Bhagwat: right.
Aditya: Right, right.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Right. So that depends on the type of this. This thing you're solving now. Tomorrow what they might come up with they might come up with a little bit of tweak of something, and they might call it something else.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and that will be a brand, and then the courses will build will be built around that. You learn this like prompt engineering. Right? They have built prompt engineering as a separate thing.
Ritesh Bhagwat: And they're, you know, giving certified courses of broad engineering. Also, it is just a marketing gimmick. If something new will come up, and then they will form an industry around it, then it will slowly fade, fade away after a few months.
Ritesh Bhagwat: If you have been, you know, following this field, you will see that
Ritesh Bhagwat: that things come things pop up suddenly, they become the most important. You you will, cannot survive without it, and then it goes down.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So it's just a marketing exercise, right? So, but still there's a difference. There is subtle difference. You can go ahead, go and see on Chat Gpt. But if you look at if you ask Chat gpt, but you know, if you ask it, a question difference between this and this, and then it then you ask that chat. But isn't it the same. So it will tell you, yeah, it's technically the same. But this, this, this like, like that type of answer you will get.
Ritesh Bhagwat: yeah, yeah, that's got it. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay. So let's take a 8 min break, and then we'll get introduced to open air.
Shubham Gupta: Hi, ritesh! I actually joined a little late
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes.
Shubham Gupta: I wanted to confirm that we were discussing that key value. Query last time.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Shubham Gupta: Yeah, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Correct. Correct? Yeah. So at the start of the session, what I said is, because what was happening was, we were not able to discuss this fine tuning thing right? And what is fine tuning? We are getting stuck in a loop for last 2 sessions in that transformer architecture. Difference? Only right? So what I told at the start of the session was, we are still pending on key query, key values. What we are going to do is next week, when we are. So we are going to solve the bird problem. What we'll do. We'll talk about that and then implement it straight away.
Ritesh Bhagwat: so that the the the gap that is coming in the lack of understanding that will go away. But before that, because with bird we have to do all the understand fine tuning and all that stuff. So we will take that today and then come to key queries and values next week, along with the practical application.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, yeah. So that's why you might have missed that. Okay. So you might have thought that what's going around. We have just started this. Okay, we'll come to that. Don't worry. Okay. Meantime, take this time to revise more about that key queries and values, and we will come and talk about it next week is full key query, metrics, and but that's it.
Shubham Gupta: Got it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay. So Shubham is back
Ritesh Bhagwat: so Shubam, you you missed the initial part. But were you at that time of that encoder decoder
Ritesh Bhagwat: discussion.
Shubham Gupta: Yes, yes, I joined like only 2, 3 min late.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, okay, so you were part of that vegetable making and all that analogy I gave.
Shubham Gupta: Yes, yes, yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, okay, that time is fine.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It will. We are waiting for others.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We need these here. We'll just, you know, finish it off in next 1015 min. Just wanted to introduce Chat Gpt. Api to you.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So that, you know we get the ball rolling.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So, Nishant, if I actually need the update.
Ritesh Bhagwat: We are waiting for Aditya.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So any questions till now.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Srinith, you are still here. Right?
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, we can.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. By the way, you know we are going over time over time in the sense that there were 24 sessions. We are going to go over time, so Nishant knows it. Nishant has taken a couple of my earlier sessions also.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So I hope you're okay with it. Right? I think you should be okay. But because, you know we are not like coaching class and trying to finish. We are taking over time, but I will try and wrap it up by December end.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, everything. In next 4 or 5 sessions we'll we'll do a lot of hands on so. But still, I I hope you all are okay with it. Right.
Shubham Gupta: Yes, we do.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It's just yeah, yeah.
Shrinidhi: Everything while others. So I just want to share some
Shrinidhi: thing like this week I had to conduct one boot camp in my office and one of the topics was embeddings. So
Shrinidhi: okay, okay, had to give a 45 min talk on that
Shrinidhi: and use all the knowledge information that we learned over last April.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Great.
Shrinidhi: And it was very well appreciated. Everyone and.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Whatever. Great. Great. Yeah. Happy.
Shrinidhi: You do that because of the sessions that you did so. I thought.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, I'm yeah. I'm so happy for that. Yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: this is actually me. This, all things make make me very, very happy. I take a lot of pride in the sense that you know, because I have not kept this as my primary source of income. So you know, I I teach slowly. I take my time. I try not to do this as a coaching class, and when you say some things like this I I feel very happy it is all.
Ritesh Bhagwat: No, it it feels very nice to me.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Thanks. Thanks to you also.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. So Ali Ali carry you back
Ritesh Bhagwat: is not here. Okay, we'll start. We will just go ahead and quickly. You know, I'm just going to show you maybe 10 min, everything that we did with Gemini, we are actually going to do with chat Gpt. Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So for Chat Gpt, what you need to do is these, basically, you have to install.
Ritesh Bhagwat: This is all part python, dot. Nvc, one skyscape and you can just write the requirement file. You have to install. Pip, install open. AI, okay, like in Gemini, we had to install the Gemini. We have to install this open. AI. Okay, now, what is happening is I figured it out that after installing it sometimes it is not running. So what? The what I'm going to share this file with you just run this for the safety pip, install upgrade. Open AI white queue is just quite
Ritesh Bhagwat: okay. So you go ahead and you update this. This is done. It should work. Okay. And now, I'm just telling you and just get just the getting started type of thing. Okay, this, we are not trying to solve any problem. We'll solve these problems later. So
Ritesh Bhagwat: you run this. I've already run this. Now, import OS, dot env load dot Nv. And
Ritesh Bhagwat: instead of Gemini we are loading openai. So if you don't remember what this dot envy and all this stuff is, you just go ahead
Ritesh Bhagwat: and you just take our Gemini Gemini sessions, you will, you will. You know. Remember what all this this will load the local environment. So I have kept my, if you see this dot inv variable here I have kept my Api key here in in for for open and named it as Open Api Key.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So I run it. Now you can go here.
Ritesh Bhagwat: platform dot this thing, and from here you can create an open, a id.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, you just log in log in with your credentials here, and it will give you
Ritesh Bhagwat: it, will. It will give you access to your Openai.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Right? So I I'm sharing this file. You can just go here. Okay, so this I have imported twice. This is not needed. I've loaded the dot. Inv
Ritesh Bhagwat: Openai Key is equal to OS dot get environment, the Openai Key name. This is exactly like Gemini. I hope you remember this, but things that we did with our Gemini exactly the same way, but with open.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Anyone who remembers this, or What is this? OS dot getty in me or not?
Aditya: Yes, it is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, you remember? Yeah, you you have actually added to build a streamnet application. So you should.
Aditya: Yeah, yeah.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I know you worry about. Yeah. So we are just doing this with open instead of using Gemini, you use the Openai. That's it. Okay, you do this. And just for getting started, I'm just going to run this
Ritesh Bhagwat: from Openai Import Openai. We are making a client
Ritesh Bhagwat: for client and open client or ABC, you can just write. ABC, now, client is we are calling it on open air like this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: and we are just seeing what are the models available.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So client, dot model dot list. You can just see the list of client.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Now it is.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It is giving this in such a weird manner. Right? It is giving this so better is right for model in clients. Dot model dot print print model, so it will print the model one time.
Ritesh Bhagwat: These are all the models available.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So all, or one preview, or one Mini
Ritesh Bhagwat: rally one, you might have a Gpt. 3.5 Turbo Gpt. 3.5. There's baggage.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Darwin, C. And all these models available. Now, what you can do whisper. By the way, this is used a lot.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Some open source versions are there in
Ritesh Bhagwat: hugging face. Also, we'll use use those. Okay. What you can do is we'll do this in any case, we'll do this. But you go ahead and you start the exactly the way we did things with gemini. You can do the same with open air. So
Ritesh Bhagwat: so what I would urge everybody. Is Aditya. What you can do is what we build it streamlit, right? You use gemini there for the for the purpose of solving the problem right? So use open AI models for solving the problem, and the streamline code will remain the same. So what is going to happen is you're using open. That's that is the only difference.
Aditya: Yes, it is but the the code, for you know that maintaining history and all that will change.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah.
Aditya: With the with the open air.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, that's correct. That's yeah.
Aditya: Okay.
Ritesh Bhagwat: You. You started as a standalone thing. Do some R&D, we are going to go ahead and explore these models. I'll tell you, which are more important, and which are not important. But you know, because we have done all these with Gemini, you yourself on your own, can do with all this, if you, if you know one, you know everything. It is like that. But still we I'll I'll tell you what are important, what is not important. I recently got to work on open thankfully. So I have a you know.
Ritesh Bhagwat: I mean, I have worked a lot. So I have some knowledge of working on open. So I'll I'll tell you this, if you could see text embedding large and all, you can just go ahead and start using this.
Ritesh Bhagwat: So go ahead. Start exploring, what we will do next week is Bert Aqv. And we'll solve one problem with, at least one problem with this
Ritesh Bhagwat: open a it.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay? So we have last session. This session.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Both of this are the foundation for all next 5 6 sessions that you're going. We are going to study. So you know, take your time to again revise the Kqw Kqv. Metrics type and we will. We will just conclude it in the 1st part of the session next. Okay? Again, I'm giving you one more. You know this thing to learn. And if somebody wants to present, I'm not going to force anybody.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Learn this. If you get time somebody wants to present on Kqv. He can present. If not, then I'll take it up, we will conclude it, and we will implement it in bot.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, so that is it from my side? Any questions. Otherwise I'm done.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, no question. So I'm quite happy, Siniti. You told me that you presented this
Ritesh Bhagwat: session so congratulations to you, and let's meet on next Sunday. And you know we'll have some. Okay, come with the mindset of next Sunday that it is a problem. It is going to be a problem solving session, not a political session.
Shrinidhi: Service, Thanks.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, thanks. Thanks. Everyone. Have a good week. And yeah, let's be talking. Then enjoy the match. The cricket, I mean, if
Ritesh Bhagwat: I hope somebody will be degraded. They are going doing very good, actually.
Akshay: Yeah, we'll be winning this match.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah, yeah, it seems. So. Yeah, 2, 75 for one.
Akshay: Yes.
Ritesh Bhagwat: It'd be great. Yeah.
Akshay: It's everything is one sided in my hospital.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, all.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yes, yes, that's true. Yesterday, also, once I did today, also.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Okay, bye-bye. Have a good week. Let's meet on next time.
Shrinidhi: Thank you.
Aditya: Okay, thank you. Ritesh. Bye, bye.
Ritesh Bhagwat: Yeah. Thanks. Bye.